---
title: Model and Real World
description: There will be always a better model, our world wants it so
date: 2022-03-13
tags:
  - Model
  - Real World
  - Oracle Problem
  - Complex nature
  - Science
  - Genetic Algorithms
---

## Learn always new stuff by using models of nature drawing your own conclusions
Learn and study new 'little' junks by casting simplified parts from our way too complex real world into handy models. 
Check also with others and play those models as much as possible and try to find what they might predict back to real world should also look like - create & proof a hypothesis. 


### Checking needed!
Does it fit? - go from here: dismiss, refine or take such as the new paradigm for the time being good enough - repeat...


### Nothing new here:
The good thing, there are many ppl out there describing, discussing their models and even found greater consensus where we can see and learn from. But just take all such as granted and even persistently copy others conclusions is a risk. 
It always takes own critical thinking and energy to mitigate that risk, but it is very human to do and got us to new undestanding, better models of or wolrd - worth doing. 


## Math and Computers only model abstract
Math is a very strict model that our human logic (why is such that consistent globally?) derives by casting a thing into a number 1, another disitinct thing next to the first one into number 2 - and no thing into number 0 - off you go with algebra :)

Computers than uses such (maths & logic = human written code) - add dynamic (a clock, runs the code) plus phyiscal devices / human interfacing (colors, sounds,..) and can create some insane new world we call no virtual reality, but only are a poor cast of real world - a model that can not by itself know new real events from nature, what is the oracle problem. So better never trust any computer just straight, it is only a poor image of reality that needs your checkings to reduce risks!

Computers only know about bits and bytes and about how to change them dynamically - told by human logics.

## Will Genetic Algorithms change things?
Interesting it gets if you allow code to evolve eg by Genetic Algorithms = 'randomly' breedging new code and select new.
But it seems they will be always be bound by some Hibert Room of algos and humans are the only creative ones here?


## The REAL Problem: Our brain already models & filters heavily for us...what is really real?
Seems we always have to adjust with other brains = humans to find consensus about what is real - and that all day new, cause things are changing. Finally real world perception is not only a function of a single brain - luckily :)
What is really static first? Physics is about... but maybe nothing in the end (or beginning)?

